README.md, before:

# Happo.io

Happo is a visual regression testing tool for React. It hooks into your CI
environment to compare the visual appearance of your components before and
after a change. Screenshots are taken in different browsers and across
different screen sizes to ensure consistent cross-browser and responsive
styling of your application.

## Installation

```
npm install happo.io --save-dev
```

## Getting started

Before you can run happo, you need to define one or more component example
files. Let's assume there's a `<Button>` component that we're adding examples
for. First, create a file called `Button-happo.jsx` and save it next to your
`Button.jsx` file (if this doesn't match your naming scheme you can use the
[`include`](#include) option). Add a few exports to this file (yes, you can use
ES6 here):

```jsx
export const primary = () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>;
export const secondary = () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>;
```

Then, we need to add some configuration. API tokens are used to authenticate
you with the remote happo.io service: `apiKey` and `apiSecret`.  These can be
found on your account page at https://happo.io/me. You also need to tell happo
what browsers you want to target. In this example, we're using two Firefox
targets. One at 1024 x 768 screen ("desktop") and one on a 320 x 640 screen
("mobile").


```js
const { RemoteBrowserTarget } = require('happo');

module.exports = {
  // It's good practice to never store API tokens directly in the config file.
  // Here, we're using environment variables.
  apiKey: process.env.HAPPO_API_KEY,
  apiSecret: process.env.HAPPO_API_SECRET,

  targets: {
    'firefox-desktop': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '1024x768',
    }),
    'firefox-mobile': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '320x640',
    }),
  },
};
```

Once we're done with the configuration it's time to try things out. Before we
do that, let's add a `script` to our `package.json` file so that it's easier to
invoke commands:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "happo": "happo"
  }
}
```

This will expose a `happo` script we can run with

```bash
npm run happo run
```

Go ahead and run that command now.

If things are successful, you'll see something like this at the end of the run:

```
Uploading report for 07f7bd689025c8e
Done 07f7bd689025c8e
```

This first run will serve as our baseline. But now we need something to compare
that baseline with. A good way to test the whole flow is to make a change to a
component example and verify that happo will catch that difference. Open one of
your `*-happo.jsx` files and make some changes, e.g.

```jsx
export const primary = () => <Button type="primary">PRIMARY</Button>;
export const secondary = () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>;
export const tertiary = () => <Button type="tertiary">Tertiary</Button>;
```

Here, we made primary button have ALL CAPS and added a `tertiary` variant.

Let's run happo a second time:

```bash
npm run happo run
```

This time, we'll get a different hash:
```
Uploading report for 07f8a31ec5f24...
Done 07f8a31ec5f24
```

Once the second run is done, we can compare the two runs by passing both hashes
to the `happo compare` action:

```bash
$ npm run happo compare 07f7bd689025c8e 07f8a31ec5f24
The two reports are different. View full report at
https://happo.io/compare?q=07f7bd689025c8e..07f8a31ec5f24
```

If you open this URL in a browser, you'll see something like this:
![Happo report page](happo-report.png)

We've now covered the most important steps and commands involved in making a
full happo run. Normally, you won't run all these commands locally. Instead,
you'll configure your CI environment to do it for you, on every
PR/commit/branch pushed. Let's look at how you can do that next.

## Defining examples

The default way of defining happo examples for a component is through a
`ComponentName-happo.jsx` file, with an ES export for each variant you are
looking to test:

```jsx
export const primary = () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>;
export const secondary = () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>;
```

You can use the default export as well:

```jsx
export default () => <Button>Submit</Button>;
```

If you are more comfortable with CommonJS syntax, you can export an object
instead:

```jsx
module.exports = {
  primary: () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>,
  secondary: () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>,
};
```

Happo will infer the component name from the file. In the example above, if the
file is named `Button-happo.jsx`, the inferred name will be `Button`.

If you want to group multiple components in one file you can export an array
instead, with objects defining the component and its variants. This can be
handy if you for some reason want to auto-generate happo examples from another
source (e.g. a style-guide, component-gallery).

```jsx
export default [
  {
    component: 'Button',
    variants: {
      primary: () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>,
      secondary: () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>,
    },
  },
  {
    component: 'Icon',
    variants: {
      small: () => <Icon size="small" />,
      large: () => <Icon size="large" />,
    },
  },
]
```

## Integrating with your CI environment

Once you've gone through the Getting Started guide, you should have a good
understanding of what commands are involved in making a full, two-pass, happo
run. Happo works by running twice. Once to create a baseline, and a second time
to compare against this baseline. If you are using a pull-request model to push
code to your repo, you can run the baseline run on the commit that the
PR/branch was based off of. If you have a commit-by-commit model, you can
compare against the previous commit. Since multiple changes might be pushed at
the same time, using the same commit as base, there's a happo command you can
use to check if the baseline even has to be created:

```bash
happo has-report <sha>
```

If this command exits successfully (exit code 0), the report already exists. In
this case, you don't have to checkout that commit and run happo on it. If it
exits with a non-zero exit code, the report hasn't been created and you need
to do git checkout and run happo.

When you run `happo compare <sha1> <sha2>`, a message will be printed to stdout
containing a link to the page where you can view changes. You can use this
message to post a comment on the PR/commit. Additionally, the exit code will
tell you whether there was any diffs or not. Exit code zero means no diffs. Any
other exit code means there was one or more diffs (including added and removed
examples).

You can use the [`example-ci-script.sh`](example-ci-script.sh) as a base for
writing your own script to run in CI.

### Adding links back to PRs/commits

Both `happo run` and `happo compare` accepts two options you can use to
contextualize the report better in the happo.io UI: `--link` and `--message`.
In CI, this can look something like this:

```bash
happo compare 07f8a31ec5f24 bb07f8a31cce3 --link "${GITHUB_PR_URL}" --message "${GITHUB_PR_MESSAGE}"


happo run 07f8a31ec5f24 --link "${GITHUB_PR_URL}" --message "${GITHUB_PR_MESSAGE}"
```

## Local development

The `happo dev` command is designed to help local development of components. In
dev mode, happo will watch the file system for changes, and regenerate
screenshots on every change. Used in combination with the `--only` option, this
is a great tool for iterating on a component. Let's see how it works:

```bash
⨠ yarn happo dev --only Button
Initializing...
Generating screenshots...
Waiting for firefox results (ID=254)...
Waiting for chrome results (ID=255)...
Waiting for internet explorer results (ID=256)...
Preparing report (dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826)...
View results at https://happo.io/report?q=dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826
```

If you then make changes to the code that renders Button, happo will kick off
another run. If there are diffs from the previous run, you'll see those in
the console:

```bash
Initializing...
Generating screenshots...
Waiting for firefox results (ID=254)...
Waiting for chrome results (ID=255)...
Waiting for internet explorer results (ID=256)...
Preparing report (dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826)...
View results at https://happo.io/report?q=dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826

Generating screenshots...
Waiting for firefox results (ID=258)...
Waiting for chrome results (ID=259)...
Waiting for internet explorer results (ID=260)...
Preparing report (dev-87ae2e31d6014fe4bd65)...
View results at https://happo.io/report?q=dev-87ae2e31d6014fe4bd65

Comparing with previous run...

  Differences were found.

  - 2 diffs
  - 2 unchanged examples

  View full report at
  https://happo.io/compare?q=dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826..dev-87ae2e31d6014fe4bd65
```

## CSS Loading Strategies

Happo works best when CSS code is co-located with the components. In some
cases, you'll get away with zero configuration to get this working. But in many
cases, you'll have to add a little webpack config to the mix. Happo uses
webpack under the hood when generating browser-executable javascript. The
`customizeWebpackConfig` config option will let you inject things like webpack
loaders to the happo run. E.g.

```js
module.exports = {
  customizeWebpackConfig: (config) => {
    config.module = {
      rules: [
        { test: /\.css$/, use: [{ loader: cssLoader }] },
      ],
    };
   // it's important that we return the modified config
    return config;
  },
}
```

## Configuration

Happo will look for configuration in a `.happo.js` file in the current working
folder. You can override the path to this file through the `--config` CLI
option. This file isn't subject to babel transpilation, so it's best to stay
with good old CommonJS syntax unless you're on the very latest Node version.

### `include`

Controls what files happo will grab examples from. The default is
`'**/@(*-happo|happo).@(js|jsx)'`. This option is useful if you want to apply a
different naming scheme, e.g. `**/*-examples.js`.

### `stylesheets`

If you rely on externally loaded stylesheets, list their URLs in this config
option, e.g. `['http://cdn/style.css']`.

### `targets`

This is where you specify the browsers you want to be part of your happo run. E.g.

```js
module.exports = {
  targets: {
    'firefox-desktop': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '1024x768',
    }),
    'firefox-mobile': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '320x640',
    }),
    'chrome': new RemoteBrowserTarget('chrome', {
      viewport: '800x600',
    }),
  },
};
```

Currently supported browsers:

- `firefox`
- `chrome`

### `customizeWebpackConfig`

A function you can use to override the default webpack config used internally
by happo during a run. Make sure to always return the passed in `config`. E.g.

```js
module.exports = {
  customizeWebpackConfig: (config) => {
    config.module = {
      rules: [
        { test: /\.css$/, use: [{ loader: cssLoader }] },
      ],
    };
   // it's important that we return the modified config
    return config;
  },
}
```

### `setupScript`

A path to a file that will be executed before rendering your components. This
is useful if you for instance want to inject global css styling (e.g. a css
reset), custom fonts, etc. This script is executed in a DOM environment, so
it's safe to inject things into the `<head>`.

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  setupScript: path.resolve(__dirname, 'happoSetup.js');
}
```

Commit message:

Add publicFolders to README
So that this new feature is more discoverable.

README.md, after:

# Happo.io

Happo is a visual regression testing tool for React. It hooks into your CI
environment to compare the visual appearance of your components before and
after a change. Screenshots are taken in different browsers and across
different screen sizes to ensure consistent cross-browser and responsive
styling of your application.

## Installation

```
npm install happo.io --save-dev
```

## Getting started

Before you can run happo, you need to define one or more component example
files. Let's assume there's a `<Button>` component that we're adding examples
for. First, create a file called `Button-happo.jsx` and save it next to your
`Button.jsx` file (if this doesn't match your naming scheme you can use the
[`include`](#include) option). Add a few exports to this file (yes, you can use
ES6 here):

```jsx
export const primary = () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>;
export const secondary = () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>;
```

Then, we need to add some configuration. API tokens are used to authenticate
you with the remote happo.io service: `apiKey` and `apiSecret`.  These can be
found on your account page at https://happo.io/me. You also need to tell happo
what browsers you want to target. In this example, we're using two Firefox
targets. One at 1024 x 768 screen ("desktop") and one on a 320 x 640 screen
("mobile").


```js
const { RemoteBrowserTarget } = require('happo');

module.exports = {
  // It's good practice to never store API tokens directly in the config file.
  // Here, we're using environment variables.
  apiKey: process.env.HAPPO_API_KEY,
  apiSecret: process.env.HAPPO_API_SECRET,

  targets: {
    'firefox-desktop': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '1024x768',
    }),
    'firefox-mobile': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '320x640',
    }),
  },
};
```

Once we're done with the configuration it's time to try things out. Before we
do that, let's add a `script` to our `package.json` file so that it's easier to
invoke commands:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "happo": "happo"
  }
}
```

This will expose a `happo` script we can run with

```bash
npm run happo run
```

Go ahead and run that command now.

If things are successful, you'll see something like this at the end of the run:

```
Uploading report for 07f7bd689025c8e
Done 07f7bd689025c8e
```

This first run will serve as our baseline. But now we need something to compare
that baseline with. A good way to test the whole flow is to make a change to a
component example and verify that happo will catch that difference. Open one of
your `*-happo.jsx` files and make some changes, e.g.

```jsx
export const primary = () => <Button type="primary">PRIMARY</Button>;
export const secondary = () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>;
export const tertiary = () => <Button type="tertiary">Tertiary</Button>;
```

Here, we made primary button have ALL CAPS and added a `tertiary` variant.

Let's run happo a second time:

```bash
npm run happo run
```

This time, we'll get a different hash:
```
Uploading report for 07f8a31ec5f24...
Done 07f8a31ec5f24
```

Once the second run is done, we can compare the two runs by passing both hashes
to the `happo compare` action:

```bash
$ npm run happo compare 07f7bd689025c8e 07f8a31ec5f24
The two reports are different. View full report at
https://happo.io/compare?q=07f7bd689025c8e..07f8a31ec5f24
```

If you open this URL in a browser, you'll see something like this:
![Happo report page](happo-report.png)

We've now covered the most important steps and commands involved in making a
full happo run. Normally, you won't run all these commands locally. Instead,
you'll configure your CI environment to do it for you, on every
PR/commit/branch pushed. Let's look at how you can do that next.

## Defining examples

The default way of defining happo examples for a component is through a
`ComponentName-happo.jsx` file, with an ES export for each variant you are
looking to test:

```jsx
export const primary = () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>;
export const secondary = () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>;
```

You can use the default export as well:

```jsx
export default () => <Button>Submit</Button>;
```

If you are more comfortable with CommonJS syntax, you can export an object
instead:

```jsx
module.exports = {
  primary: () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>,
  secondary: () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>,
};
```

Happo will infer the component name from the file. In the example above, if the
file is named `Button-happo.jsx`, the inferred name will be `Button`.

If you want to group multiple components in one file you can export an array
instead, with objects defining the component and its variants. This can be
handy if you for some reason want to auto-generate happo examples from another
source (e.g. a style-guide, component-gallery).

```jsx
export default [
  {
    component: 'Button',
    variants: {
      primary: () => <Button type="primary">Primary</Button>,
      secondary: () => <Button type="secondary">Secondary</Button>,
    },
  },
  {
    component: 'Icon',
    variants: {
      small: () => <Icon size="small" />,
      large: () => <Icon size="large" />,
    },
  },
]
```

## Integrating with your CI environment

Once you've gone through the Getting Started guide, you should have a good
understanding of what commands are involved in making a full, two-pass, happo
run. Happo works by running twice. Once to create a baseline, and a second time
to compare against this baseline. If you are using a pull-request model to push
code to your repo, you can run the baseline run on the commit that the
PR/branch was based off of. If you have a commit-by-commit model, you can
compare against the previous commit. Since multiple changes might be pushed at
the same time, using the same commit as base, there's a happo command you can
use to check if the baseline even has to be created:

```bash
happo has-report <sha>
```

If this command exits successfully (exit code 0), the report already exists. In
this case, you don't have to checkout that commit and run happo on it. If it
exits with a non-zero exit code, the report hasn't been created and you need
to do git checkout and run happo.

When you run `happo compare <sha1> <sha2>`, a message will be printed to stdout
containing a link to the page where you can view changes. You can use this
message to post a comment on the PR/commit. Additionally, the exit code will
tell you whether there was any diffs or not. Exit code zero means no diffs. Any
other exit code means there was one or more diffs (including added and removed
examples).

You can use the [`example-ci-script.sh`](example-ci-script.sh) as a base for
writing your own script to run in CI.

### Adding links back to PRs/commits

Both `happo run` and `happo compare` accepts two options you can use to
contextualize the report better in the happo.io UI: `--link` and `--message`.
In CI, this can look something like this:

```bash
happo compare 07f8a31ec5f24 bb07f8a31cce3 --link "${GITHUB_PR_URL}" --message "${GITHUB_PR_MESSAGE}"


happo run 07f8a31ec5f24 --link "${GITHUB_PR_URL}" --message "${GITHUB_PR_MESSAGE}"
```

## Local development

The `happo dev` command is designed to help local development of components. In
dev mode, happo will watch the file system for changes, and regenerate
screenshots on every change. Used in combination with the `--only` option, this
is a great tool for iterating on a component. Let's see how it works:

```bash
⨠ yarn happo dev --only Button
Initializing...
Generating screenshots...
Waiting for firefox results (ID=254)...
Waiting for chrome results (ID=255)...
Waiting for internet explorer results (ID=256)...
Preparing report (dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826)...
View results at https://happo.io/report?q=dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826
```

If you then make changes to the code that renders Button, happo will kick off
another run. If there are diffs from the previous run, you'll see those in
the console:

```bash
Initializing...
Generating screenshots...
Waiting for firefox results (ID=254)...
Waiting for chrome results (ID=255)...
Waiting for internet explorer results (ID=256)...
Preparing report (dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826)...
View results at https://happo.io/report?q=dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826

Generating screenshots...
Waiting for firefox results (ID=258)...
Waiting for chrome results (ID=259)...
Waiting for internet explorer results (ID=260)...
Preparing report (dev-87ae2e31d6014fe4bd65)...
View results at https://happo.io/report?q=dev-87ae2e31d6014fe4bd65

Comparing with previous run...

  Differences were found.

  - 2 diffs
  - 2 unchanged examples

  View full report at
  https://happo.io/compare?q=dev-ff4c58da118671bd8826..dev-87ae2e31d6014fe4bd65
```

## Image loading

Examples can reference images in a few different ways:

- Through external URLs, e.g. `<img src="http://domain/image.png" />`. Happo
  will wait for these to be downloaded before the screenshot is taken.
- With internal paths, combined with `publicFolders` configuration. E.g.
  `<img src="/assets/images/foo.png" />`. Make sure to add an (absolute) path
  to the folder containing your assets in the `publicFolders` config option.
  Happo will automatically inline these as base64 URLs.
- With images inlined as base64 URLs. This is often automated using webpack
  config, so that for you can `import fooImage from './images/foo.png'`
  directly.

## CSS Loading Strategies

Happo works best when CSS code is co-located with the components. In some
cases, you'll get away with zero configuration to get this working. But in many
cases, you'll have to add a little webpack config to the mix. Happo uses
webpack under the hood when generating browser-executable javascript. The
`customizeWebpackConfig` config option will let you inject things like webpack
loaders to the happo run. E.g.

```js
module.exports = {
  customizeWebpackConfig: (config) => {
    config.module = {
      rules: [
        { test: /\.css$/, use: [{ loader: cssLoader }] },
      ],
    };
   // it's important that we return the modified config
    return config;
  },
}
```

## Configuration

Happo will look for configuration in a `.happo.js` file in the current working
folder. You can override the path to this file through the `--config` CLI
option. This file isn't subject to babel transpilation, so it's best to stay
with good old CommonJS syntax unless you're on the very latest Node version.

### `include`

Controls what files happo will grab examples from. The default is
`'**/@(*-happo|happo).@(js|jsx)'`. This option is useful if you want to apply a
different naming scheme, e.g. `**/*-examples.js`.

### `stylesheets`

If you rely on externally loaded stylesheets, list their URLs in this config
option, e.g. `['http://cdn/style.css']`.

### `targets`

This is where you specify the browsers you want to be part of your happo run. E.g.

```js
module.exports = {
  targets: {
    'firefox-desktop': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '1024x768',
    }),
    'firefox-mobile': new RemoteBrowserTarget('firefox', {
      viewport: '320x640',
    }),
    'chrome': new RemoteBrowserTarget('chrome', {
      viewport: '800x600',
    }),
  },
};
```

Currently supported browsers:

- `firefox`
- `chrome`

### `customizeWebpackConfig`

A function you can use to override the default webpack config used internally
by happo during a run. Make sure to always return the passed in `config`. E.g.

```js
module.exports = {
  customizeWebpackConfig: (config) => {
    config.module = {
      rules: [
        { test: /\.css$/, use: [{ loader: cssLoader }] },
      ],
    };
   // it's important that we return the modified config
    return config;
  },
}
```

### `publicFolders`

An array of (absolute) paths specifying the places where public assets are
located. Useful if you have examples that depend on publicly available images
(e.g. `<img src="/foo.png" />`).

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  publicFolders: [
    path.resolve(__dirname, 'src/public'),
  ],
}
```

### `setupScript`

A path to a file that will be executed before rendering your components. This
is useful if you for instance want to inject global css styling (e.g. a css
reset), custom fonts, etc. This script is executed in a DOM environment, so
it's safe to inject things into the `<head>`.

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  setupScript: path.resolve(__dirname, 'happoSetup.js');
}
```
